New Term Entry: C++ `getline()` (#687)
Codecademy/docs: content/cpp/concepts/user-input/terms/getline/getline.md

---
Title: 'getline()'

> Description: 'Gets the user input up to a character, if specified, and stores it to a variable.'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Description: 'Converts the user input into a string delimited by a character, if specified, and then stored into a variable.'
```

> Description: 'Converts user input into a string delimited by a character, if specified, and then stored into a variable.'

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Description: 'Converts user input into a string delimited by a character, if specified, and then stores it into a variable.'
```

Subjects:
  - 'Computer Science'
  - 'Game Development'
Tags:
  - 'Functions'
  - 'Strings'
  - 'Characters'
  - 'Data Types'
CatalogContent:
  - 'learn-c-plus-plus'
  - 'paths/computer-science'
---

> In C++, the `getline()` function gets the user's input up to a character and stores it to a variable. If the character, refered to as the delimiting character, is not specified, then the entire input will be stored.

Author: ```suggestion
In C++, the `getline()` function gets the user's input up to a character and stores it in a variable. If the character, referred to as the delimiting character, is not specified, then the entire input will be stored.
```

> In C++, the `getline()` function gets the user's input up to a character and stores it in a variable. If the character, referred to as the delimiting character, is not specified, then the entire input will be stored.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In C++, the `getline()` function converts the user's input into a character-delimited string and stores them in a variable. If a delimiting character is not specified, then the entire input will be stored.
```

## Syntax

> The `getline()` function is part of the `<string>` header.

Reviewer: I recommend moving this below  the syntax code snippet.

> The `getline()` function is part of the `<string>` header.

Author: ```suggestion
The `getline()` function is defined in the `<string>` header.
```

```pseudo
#include <string>

getline(cin, string, delim)
```

> 

Author: ```suggestion

- `getline()` is part of the `<string>` header, so it is included at the top of the file.
```

- `getline()` is part of the `<string>` header, so it is included at the top of the file.
- `cin` is the object in the stream, which would be the user input.
- `string` refers to the variable the user input is set to.
- `delim` refers to a character that the user's input is stored up to.

> Although not recommended, `getline()` can be called on the `cin` object as a member function like this:

Author: ```suggestion
Although not recommended in C++, since it deals with C strings, `getline()` can be called on the `cin` object as a member function like this:
```

Author: I'm going to move this to C, though do you think this should go into user input there as well? or strings 🤔 @Dusch4593 @KTom101

Author: on second thought, I'm going to leave this in C++ because I see that `cin` input stream object does not exist in C. For `getline`, it looks like the reason `cin.getline()` is not recommended is that it works with character arrays instead of C++ strings.

```pseudo
cin.getline(string, length, delim)
```

> - `length` is the expected length of the character array.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `length` is the expected size of the character array.
```

## Examples

```cpp
#include <iostream>

> // Variables can be declared as strings with the following header.

Author: Should this end with a period or colon?

Author: @Dusch4593 oh! it wasn't regarding the header `#include <string>` but about the comment above it

Reviewer: Oh I see now. Hmm maybe could incorporate this comment into the text below? Then we could end it with a period. 😄

Author: Sounds like a plan~

> ## Examples

Author: Sounds good to me!

#include <string>
using namespace std;

int main() {
  string my_str;

  cout << "Enter a pet name: ";
  getline(cin, my_str);

  cout << "My pet's name is " + my_str + "!";
}
```

In the example above the user will be prompted to enter a pet name. Then, the `getline()` function will take the input and set it to the `my_str` variable. `my_str` can then be used and for following operations. If the user inputs a string, `"Nimbus"`, what's printed to the console is `"My pet's name is Nimbus!"`.

> To show the same example of `getline()` but called on the `cin` object would look like this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The same example of `getline()`, but called upon the `cin` object, would look like this:
```

```cpp
#include <iostream>
using namespace std;

int main() {
  char my_char_array[20];

  cout << "Enter a pet name: ";
  cin.getline(my_char_array, 20);

>   cout << "My pet's name is " << my_char_array << "!;

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  cout << "My pet's name is " << my_char_array << "!";
```

Author: ty for catching this!

Subjects:
  - 'Computer Science'
  - 'Game Development'
Tags:
  - 'Functions'
  - 'Strings'
  - 'Characters'
  - 'Data Types'
CatalogContent:
  - 'learn-c-plus-plus'
  - 'paths/computer-science'
---

In C++, the `getline()` function converts the user's input into a character-delimited string and stores them in a variable. If a delimiting character is not specified, then the entire input will be stored.

## Syntax

The `getline()` function is part of the `<string>` header.

```pseudo
#include <string>

getline(cin, string, delim)
```

- `getline()` is part of the `<string>` header, so it is included at the top of the file.
- `cin` is the object in the stream, which would be the user input.
- `string` refers to the variable the user input is set to.
- `delim` refers to a character that the user's input is stored up to.

Although not recommended, `getline()` can be called on the `cin` object as a member function like this:

```pseudo
cin.getline(string, length, delim)
```

- `length` is the expected size of the character array.

## Examples

```cpp
#include <iostream>

> // Variables can be declared as strings with the following header.

Author: ```suggestion
```
